RECOLLECTIONS OF BENALLA.
(BY AN OLD RESIDENT.)
A similar undertaking to that of the new Black Swan, mentioned in the preceding article, was the building of the large Seymour Hotel, the owner being Mr John Clark, whose name occurs in connection with the escape of one of the Faithful party from the massacre, at Benalla, by the blacks. It may be mentioned, en passant, that this gentleman was the founder of Seymour. He built a punt for crossing the Goulburn river, sufficiently large for all requirements. Commencing in a very small way he, by his indomitable perseverance, affability and civility, rapidly became the favorite of all who travelled that way-the man whose opinion was solicited on all sides ; and at the same time he assisted and befriended many a person who deserved it, and many a one who did not deserve it! During this time his wealth increased as rapidly as his popularity. He was the first to occupy the country known now as the Goulburn Valley, and by breeding, and grazing on such an unlimited area of fertile country made money fast. In 185o he retired into private life with £ 5o,ooo. Thus a good man leaves a good name, and such was Mr John Clark, the founder of Seymour.
I have to some extent wandered; still, it will be interesting to know how many singular coincidences occur. Although the owner of the Black Swan cannot be said to have been founder of Benalla it might be truly said he was the Father of Benalla. Everyone applied to him for assistance ; everybody got what he or she wanted at the Swan-squatters and stockmen, splitters and shepherds. Although the population was not very numerous, there was not one who did not owe a debt of gratitude to the master and mistress of the Black Swan. The late Mr Richard Clark was a brother of the founder of Seymour. There was also another brother-the late William Clark-who was the first publican at Wangaratta, and owner of the principal part of that place, besides two or three large cattle runs. He may be said to be the Father of that town. This trio of brothers, whose names are almost unknown to the present generation, are deserving of a monument to their memory in each of the respective towns in which they resided, and so liberally assisted to establish as centres, in the north eastern part of Victoria.
