From http://person.ancestry.com.au/tree/1134338/person/-94861618/gallery?_phtarg=wmA1093


William H Clark (1809-1871) husband of Eliz Harris

Background

Posted 18 Oct 2009 by janetteishardlow

Arrived in Australia with parents on the ship 'Gengal' 9 Dec 1836.
(Transcribed from Wangaratta Cemetery CD)
William Henry Clark who was born in Kent England in 1810, came to Australia in 1832 with his parents and siblings and settled at Yass. After his marriage to Elizabeth Harris he set our with a wagonette and livestock for the Port Phillip district. Liking the country at the Ovens Crossing he took up a grazing run on the south side of the river. It covered 16,000 acres and followed the Ovens River downstream to Peechelba. Seeing potential in business at Ovens Crossing, Clark bought in 1839 the goodwill of the store and the flat bottomed boat. He built a mor substantial inn at the crossing called the Travellers' Inn, and as more people came to the area both his business at the inn and on the river increased. In 1848 he acquired a larger punt and in the boom years of the gold rush 1851-52 it is said he made 
100 pounds a day. His pastoral interests increased with the selection of a run at Whitfield and the acquisition of land at Corowa. He built a grand hotel at the Crossing Place on the main Sydney Road but a surveyor moved the road line to Murphy Street. Clark then bought a large block in Murphy Street (from Reid St. to Ely St.) and on it built in 1854 The Commercial Hotel at a cost of 7000 pounds. William Clark donated land to the Anglican Church on which has since been built Holy Trinity Cathedral, Bishop's Lodge, the Dearnery and part of the TAFE college. His eldest child was the first white child born at Ovens Crossing. William Clark died at Corowa in 1871 aged 61 and is buried at Wangaratta.

Extracted from on this Day in the North East --- 
1859 
The Hope Inn stood on the ost commerically valuable site in Wangaratta at the Ovens River crossing place. The gold rush passed right by its doors to Beechworth Woolshed and Buckland. William Clark, later known as "father of Wangaratta" was the owner. 
The hotel was burnt to the ground on this day in 1859 but by this time it had been bypassed by the goldrush traffic. A new bridge had been built across the Ovens down Murphy Street and William Clark built a grand hotel, the Commerical at the intersection of Reid and Murphy Sts. The Commerical lasted untl 1950's when it was demolished ..now a bank is there. 
The Sydney Hotel stands on the site of the old Hope Inn. 
Source: http://listsearches.rootsweb.com/cgi-bin/ifetch2?/u1/textindices/A/AUS-VIC-NE+2001+14142363319+F accessed 2006-04-09

W. Clarke is mentioned in the Appendices "The Municipal District of Wangaratta July 1863. Chairman: E. Lucas. Concillors: M. Cusack, W. Clark, J. Dixon, W. Murdoch, J. Burrows, A. Tone" A quick flip thru shows he was mentioned at council elections etc. and he was still a councillor in 1867 On 3/7/1867 he was stating 
the material of inferior quality was being used in the construction of the Town Hall. The book also has photos of Wang streets in 1866. Glad my posting was of interest, so here are some more on W Clark, from on this Day in the North East ONe of the oldest buildings in Wang built by the "Father of Wangaratta", W.H. Clark located near the entrance of Merriwa Park was destroyed by fire on this day (5/1/1929) The fire broke out in the shop occupied by Harrison, the tin-smith, and ignited the old timber shingles under the corrugated iron roof. The premises of the bootmaker adjoining were also burnt. The old buildings were in the process of being dismantled to enable a Ford garage to be build on the site. ........... 16/3/1861. Wangaratta's leading hotel of its day, the Commercial, had a change of licensee. 
William Murdoch, the lesee of the Royal, signed up with William Clark to take over the more prestigious and better positioned Commercial at the corner of Reid St and what was by now the undisputed main street of Wang. Murphy St. The agreement signed on this day was to take effect from the first licensing day in the following July. ---------- 20.8.1912 Ernest McPherson on this day in 1912 planted a Currajong tree in the grounds of HOly Trinity Cathedral, in memory of his great-grandfather, William Clark. ------------- 19.9.1868 A company to build a new brewery in Wangaratta was formed in May1868 and on the 19th Setpember in the same year the foundation stone of the new brewery was laid. The brewery was to be built on a piece of William Clark's land, overlooking the King river,and it was on this spot the crowd gathered drawn by the music of the Fife and Drum band, on this day, to see the chairman of the board, Henry Kett, landlord of the Royal Hotel, lay the foundation stone. ----------- The Wang Flour Mills could race it ancestry back, through several owners and re-builds to Wang's first mill built by William Clark and 
D.H. Evans. ................... ---------- Obviously this man left a paper trail, so things should be easy to find about him. Ye gods, he keeps popping up , this time in Discovering the North East as does it seem , his punt................ It seems he also owned the Punt on the Ovens!!! (busy man) "If Meldrum's Hotel was a goldmine for 
James Meldrum, the punt across the Ovens was a bonanza for the publican on the other side of the Ovens, William Clark. Before the building of the first bridge across the OVens, the thousands of travellers moving along the Sydney Road had to use a flat bottomed red gum boat to cross the river. Owned by William Clark and often opereated by a crusty character known as Billy the Puntman (that's original) it carried passengers vehicles and stock at grossly inflated charges. When the new bridge opened the punt became reduntant and settled into the mud. Over the years the punt became another underwater obstacle, sometimes breaking to the surface when droughts occurred. in 1886 the poor punt suffered structural damage when an attempt was made to clear a stretch of the river at the time of 
building of a 2nd bridge IN 1914 souvernir hunters took some, in 1939 it appeared again during a drought. After the war serious efforts were made to raise it for historical preservation but it was too fragile and today only a fraction of it survives...... regards Denise 
Source: http://listsearches.rootsweb.com/cgi-bin/ifetch2?/u1/textindices/A/AUS-VIC-NE+2001+14142363319+F accessed 2006-04-09

Hi Jenny, the following may help, or it may confuse the issue further - unfortunately I don't have any info on who the David EVANS of Myrrhee married. From Marion Flanigan's Myrrhee School Centenary and Pioneer Families Reunion, 1885 - 1985 on the EVANS family - "The family were making their way towards Whitefield in 1846, when Elinor tragically died at Yarck. One of John Junior's earliest memories was being taken to Euroa on horseback to be cared for by relatives after his mother's death. John Senior, with sons David and Evan, eventually continued the journey to Whitefield and took over the station lease in 1853, on transfer from William CLARKE. ... 'Redcamp' was a portion of the Whitefield lease until it was surveyed in 1870 and became the property of John EVANS. ..... John EVANS ..... married Elinor WHITTY, and they had a family of nine sons and two daughters ......" From a newspaper article in 1913 reporting on a farewell for Robert J. MASON - "COMING TO WANGARATTA. In 1854 Mr MASON and his father arrived at Wangaratta on their way up the King River to inspect Glenmore Station, which was for sale. The contractors were just completing the first bridge erected over the Ovens river at Wangaratta, and Mr CLARK had only during the preceding year built the first portion of the present Commercial Hotel. They stopped there for the night. The Wangaratta pound was in existence with Mr A TONE as keeper. Amongst the few residents living on the King River road were Messrs BRETT, VINCENTS, and WHITE; "Laceby" Station was owned by Mr MOORE and "Myrrhee" by Mr CHISHOLM. Mr D H EVANS was dairying on part of Myrrhee Station, and Mr John EVANS (father of Mr John EVANS, of Redcamp) was living on Whitfield station." 
In another article in 1911celebrating fifty years as a colonist, Richard SHANLEY spoke of arriving in Hobson's Bay in Oct 1860. He had as shipmates " Mr Joseph CLEARY, late of Greta, Mr and Mrs Rowland HUGHES, of Greta, Mr David EVANS (brother of Mr John EVANS, of Redcamp) now deceased, and Mr Ben EVANS (first cousin of Mr John EVANS) also deceased. Mr David EVANS was returning to Victoria from England with machinery for the Wangaratta flour mills, which the late Mr Wm CLARK and he were starting. The mills were now owned by Messrs TEAGUE Bros. On arrival in Melbourne he [SHANLEY] remained with Mr and Mrs CLEARY for a few days, and in the meantime he secured employment with Mr John EVANS (father of the present Mr John EVANS, of Redcamp.) 
Source: http://listsearches.rootsweb.com/cgi-bin/ifetch2?/u1/textindices/A/AUS-VIC-NE+2003+9841609218+F accessed 2006-04-09

NOTES:
* Anne - locate information from Jenny Boyer and Lorraine Key

* Genes re-united - Jenny (Member No. 425337), Annette (Member No. 2540505) 2006-04-08, Ellen (Member No. 1112047)

William and wife Elizabeth owned the first Inn on the Ovens River in Victoria - Hopes Inn. Ovens River is now Wangaratta. William later transferred his licence to the Commercial Hotel at Wangaratta.
The stories about old William Henry make him out to be larger than life. It is said that his father gave him some money when he married and went south from Bowing. This money was used to establish a punt over the Ovens River where Wangaratta now stands. He also ran a shanty on the north side of the river and would insist on the customers taking refreshments before he would ferry them over. Complaints about overcharging forced the Government of the day to erect a bridge. On the day the bridge was opened old William’s punt sank. To this day it sits on the riverbed and can be seen in dry seasons. There was some attempt to raise and restore it a few years ago, but it fell through. He is said to have altered surveyor’s pegs to ensure that the road leading to the bridge from the south would pass his newly established hotel. For many years he was a successful hotelier and he became known as the Father of Wangaratta. It is common misbelief that he owned the land now occupied by the Anglican Cathedral. He did not. When he was granted his fourteen-year pastoral licence under the 1847 Order-in-Council, the proposed town-site was withdrawn from his station. He did however subsequently purchase a town lot which has passed on to the Technical College. 

OVENS AND MURRAY ADVERTISER.
THURSDAY APRIL 27, 1871. OBITUARY. WILLIAM HENRY CLARK.DEATH OF AN OLD RESIDENT....
.It is with regret we record the death of Mr. Wm. Hy. Clark, one of the oldest - if not the very oldest - residents of Wangaratta, which occurred at the residence of Dr. Dobbyn, Corowa, on Monday. 
Mr.Clark had been a resident of the Wangaratta neighbourhood for over thirty years, having, at an early period, taken up the Ovens Crossing run, on part of which now stands the Borough of Wangaratta; he was also the first to establish a punt on the river near to where the town has since been erected. Mr Clark always took a great interest in the progress of the town in which he was so closely identified. For over four years he occupied a seat at the local Bourough Council table, and during his whole career he was held in general esteem, owing to his many good qualities. The funeral of the deceased took place yesterday, and was one of the largest ever witnessed at Wangaratta, upwards of four hundred persons taking part in the procession to pay their respects to the man they called "The Father of Wangaratta".
Obituary - William Henry CLARK - Death of an Old Resident
Posted 18 Oct 2009 by janetteishardlow
Ovens & Murray Advertiser (Beechworth, Victoria, Australia) - Thursday, 27th April, 1871
WILLIAM HENRY CLARK
Death of an Old Resident
It is with regret we record the death of Mr. Wm. Hy. Clark, one of the oldest - if not the very oldest - residents of Wangaratta, which occurred at the residence of Dr Dobbyn, Corowa, on Monday.
Mr.Clark had been a resident of the Wangaratta neighbourhood for over thirty years, having, at an early period, taken up the Ovens Crossing run, on part of which now stands the Borough of Wangaratta; he was also the first to establish a punt on the river near to where the town has since been erected.
Mr Clark always took a great interest in the progress of the town in which he was so closely identified. For over four years he occupied a seat at the local Bourough Council table, and during his whole career he was held in general esteem, owing to his many good qualities.
The funeral of the deceased took place yesterday, and was one of the largest ever witnessed at Wangaratta, upwards of four hundred persons taking part in the procession to pay their respects to the man they called "The Father of Wangaratta".
 
